it was almost midnight when a young girl
climbed the stairs to get to the top of
a light tower
when she reached her destination she
filled the lamp with oil
trimmed the wick and polished carbon off
the reflectors
she knew she'd have to wake up before
dawn to put the light out
the light keeper's daughter sighed and
headed down the stairs
she didn't know at that time she would
be the one to save more than 30 people
from drowning
jose lewis was appointed to be the lime
rock lighthouse keeper
in 1854 the lighthouse was perched on a
small island
at that time there was no house there
and lewis had to row 600 feet to reach
the place
it was immensely difficult and sometimes
even impossible during raging winter
storms if a storm trapped the light
keeper on the island
the only shelter he had was a tiny
one-room building with no conveniences
two years later though a house was
attached to the tower
hosea didn't have to risk his life
anymore sailing back and forth between
the mainland and the lighthouse
in 1857 hosea could finally bring his
family to live with him on the small
rocky island
his eldest daughter ida was only 15
years old at the time
unfortunately the family's happiness
didn't last long
disaster struck four months after the
family had moved to the lighthouse
hosea got seriously ill and couldn't
perform his duties anymore
the man couldn't even walk on his own
ida
as the eldest child had to take care of
her father and a younger sister who was
also
seriously ill with her mom's help the
teenager started to tend the light too
almost every day ida would get in the
boat and take her younger siblings to
school
then she would return several hours
later to pick them up
she often rode to the mainland to bring
food and other supplies
no wonder the girl was an excellent
swimmer and became extremely skillful in
dealing with her heavy rowboat
her life wasn't an easy one but never
did she think that one day
she would become a hero
it happened on march 29 1869
in the middle of a heavy snowstorm ida
had a severe cold
she was staying at home thick walls
securely sheltering her from the
piercing winds and freezing temperatures
zaratia louis ida's mother was restless
she had a sense of foreboding a strange
nagging feeling that something was amiss
just like her elder's daughter the woman
didn't like lazing around
she decided to go and check whether the
light had enough oil for the night
the lantern room windows overlooked the
sea zeradia knew the view like the back
of her hand
that's why she immediately spotted
something that made the blood run cold
in her veins
in the icy boiling waves there was an
overturned boat
two men were clinging to its hall and
shouting for help
those were two soldiers sergeant james
adams and private john mclaughlin
they had been traveling through newport
harbor in a tiny boat
their guide was a 14 year old boy who
had claimed to know the way across the
harbor
but the waves were too high and their
boat turned over
the boy disappeared beneath the surface
almost immediately
but the two men were still struggling to
stay afloat
and the worst thing about this situation
the boat was rapidly drifting toward
goat island
it meant the two men were about to be
swept into the open channel
and then into the raging ocean horrified
zaretia yelled for her daughter at the
very moment ida heard about the men
drowning
she was out of bed and rushing toward
the door her father was frantically
trying to persuade her the danger was
too great
but the girl barely heard him she didn't
waste time putting on boots coat or even
a hat or shawl
with a towel twisted around her neck she
raced toward the water
she knew every second counted ida was
barefoot
and she almost immediately cut her feet
on the sharp edges of limestone rods
she ignored the pain and the blinding
snow and shouted for her younger brother
jose to come and help her
he ran after her sister and climbed in
the boat while ida was pushing it off
the shore
the powerful wind and boiling sea made
it difficult to row
but ida was pulling the oars with
astonishing strength
her brother was frantically rowing next
to her the sea
was rising around them the freezing
water pouring over the row boat sides
despite their efforts they were still
moving frustratingly slowly
and were far away from the deepest part
of the harbor
the drowning men's desperate cries were
becoming weaker as they grew tired
suddenly it seemed to ida she heard a
woman's voice calling
was it just the wind playing with her
hearing but no
it was her mother zaradia was standing
on the very edge of the rock
waving her arms and shouting she was
trying to encourage the men
who were ready to give up miraculously
the woman's voice drew their attention
to the lifeboat
the men realized there was some hope
even though the tiny boat kept pitching
and taking on water
it reached the overturned wreck ida was
exhausted
her arms were cramping and her legs were
numb with her brother's help
she pulled the men into the boat they
were in very bad condition
the young woman knew she didn't have
time to rest her only concern now
was to get the soldiers to dry land she
didn't care about her
own pain exhaustion and hypothermia
as soon as they reached the shore ida
and jose had to carry one of the men
into the house he was unconscious the
other soldier was able to reach the
lighthouse on his own
the men stayed at the lighthouse for
some time and eventually
they were back to relatively good health
it took ida hours to calm her wildly
chattering teeth
and warm her frostbitten feet and since
she was already badly ill with a cold it
took her a long time to recover
and still after the men felt better she
rode them back to their base
one of them gave her a gold watch and
the other soldiers at fort adams
showed their gratitude by gathering 218
dollars for the young woman
but it wasn't the first time the girl
rescued people or animals
in 1854 when her father just started to
work at the lighthouse
ida came to visit him she was 12 at that
time
but already rather good at rowing it was
a cold fall day when ida noticed a group
of four boys sailing near the lighthouse
she saw their boat listing then all of a
sudden it turned over
all four unlucky passengers ended up in
the freezing water
the girl didn't think twice she
immediately rode out to rescue them
one by one she pulled the boys into her
boat
it was the first of ida's numerous
rescues
in 1966 she was in the lighthouse tower
when she saw a man
drowning in the sea it was a young
soldier who had been sailing in his
skiff
and got overturned ida managed to pull
the guy from the water just in time to
save his life
after that she reportedly saved a sheep
and its two owners
the men fell into the icy sea while
looking for their lost animal
in july 1881 ida received the rare gold
life-saving medal after saving two other
soldiers from fort adams in february
1881.
they fell through the ice while
returning to the fort on foot
and ida was just in time to rescue them
she became the first woman to get this
award
by the end of her career the woman had
saved 18 lives
but it was only official data
unofficially
this number was way bigger 36 people
pulled out of the turbulent sea
ida lewis made her last rescue when she
was 63.
that was when her friend fell overboard
while coming to visit her
the woman stood up in her boat lost her
balance and
ended up in the water lewis reached her
in record time and hauled the terrified
woman aboard